Proofread RTD Getting started and landing page (#871)
rl-institut/multi-vector-simulator: docs/simulating_with_the_mvs.rst

With these parameters, the MVS builds an energy system model which is translated to a system of linear equations. The MVS tries to find an optimal solution which minimizes the annual costs of demand supply.

In this section, we want to provide you with all information needed to design your own energy system and run your own optimisations.
First we will explain the two possible ways to provide the input parameters to the MVS. Then how to draft an energy system model out of a real local energy system configuration.

.. TODO: provide the example

Input files
-----------

All input files need to be within a folder with the following structure.

| input_folder
|     ├── csv_elements
|             ├── constraints.csv
|             ├── economic_data.csv
|             ├── energyBusses.csv
|             ├── energyConsumption.csv
|             ├── energyConversion.csv
|             ├── energyProduction.csv
|             ├── energyProviders.csv
|             ├── energyStorage.csv
|             ├── fixcost.csv
|             ├── project_data.csv
|             ├── simulation_settings.csv
|             └── storage_01.csv
|     ├── time_series
|            └── blank
|     └── mvs_config.json

> The name and location of the :code:`input_folder` is up to the user. The underlying structure and file names within this folder should not be altered.

Author: ```suggestion
The name and location of the :code:`input_folder` is up to the user. The underlying structure and file names within this folder should not be altered (with the exception of :code:`storage_01.csv` which is only required to match a filename provided in `energyStorage.csv`.
```

You can conveniently create a copy of this folder in your local path with the command (after having followed :ref:`the installation steps<installation-steps>`)
.. code::

    mvs_create_input_template

A simple example system is setup with this `input folder <https://github.com/rl-institut/multi-vector-simulator/tree/dev/tests/inputs>`__.

.. note::
    Currently only one of :code:`,`, :code:`;` or :code:`&` is allowed as value separation for the CSV files (each file should make a coherent use of a unique separator, otherwise leading to parsing problems).

    *For developpers*: the allowed separators for csv files are located in :code:`src/constants.py` under the :code:`CSV_SEPARATORS` variable.

.. note::
    The name (or label) of each assets needs to be unique and used coherently across the various csv files.

.. note::
    If the user used the CSV format to simulate a local energy system, the MVS will automatically create a Json file (:code:`mvs_csv_config.json`) from the provided input data.

>     The user could rename this file :code:`mvs_config.json` and use it as input for the simulation.

Author: The issue mentions "which is only the case if one reuses the json_input_processed.json file", but I can double check

>     The user could rename this file :code:`mvs_config.json` and use it as input for the simulation.

Author: I checked and compared the `json_with_processed_results.json` produced by the csv and the json produced from the csv and they are the same

>     The user could rename this file :code:`mvs_config.json` and use it as input for the simulation.

Reviewer: I am confused, which files did you compare? `mvs_config.json`, `mvs_csv_config.json`, `json_input_processed.json`,
`json_with_results.json`?

>     The user could rename this file :code:`mvs_config.json` and use it as input for the simulation.

Author: `json_with_processed_results.json` produced by `mvs_tool -ext csv` is the same as `json_with_processed_results.json` produced by `mvs_tool -ext json` where I renamed `mvs_csv_config.json` to `mvs_config.json`

Json file: mvs_config.json
##########################

The structure of the Json file matches the one described by the :code:`csv_elements` folder. The Json format is intended for easier exchange: via http requests for online services such as EPA for example

Use of Json file is recommended for advanced users only.

There can only be a single Json file in your input folder and it must be named :code:`mvs_config.json`.

An example of a Json file structure is available from the `default scenario <https://github.com/rl-institut/blob/dev/tests/inputs/mvs_config.json>`__ of the MVS

.. _time_series_folder:

Time series: time_series folder
###############################

> Some parameters value in the CSV/Json files are filenames. Those filenames correspond to files which must be present in the folder :code:`time_series` in your input folder, formatted as CSV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the CSV and Json files, the parameters :code:`file_name` references an input file that should include a timeseries. The filename corresponds to files which must be present in the folder :code:`time_series` in your input folder, formatted as CSV.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In the CSV and Json files, the value of the parameter :ref:`filename-label` are filenames. Those filenames correspond to files which must be present in the folder :code:`time_series` in your input folder, formatted as CSV.
```

> As an example, if one asset listed in :ref:`energy production <production>` has :code:`generation_pv.csv` as value for the :ref:`file_name <filename-label>`. The file :code:`generation_pv.csv` containing a value of the pv generation for each timestep of the simulation should be present in the :code:`time_series` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, if one asset listed in :ref:`energy production <production>` has :code:`generation_pv.csv` as value for the :ref:`file_name <filename-label>`. This file :code:`generation_pv.csv` contains the specific pv generation for each timestep of the simulation and should be present in the :code:`time_series` folder.
```

Author: You suggestion changes the main verb of the sentence which is the file should be present, I will therefore not add it

Reviewer: Then how about brackets?

.. note::

>     The time series describing a non-dispatchable demand or when a time series defines an otherwise scalar value of a parameter (eg. energy price), the time series can have any absolute values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When a time series describes a non-dispatchable demand or an otherwise scalar value of a parameter (eg. energy price), the values of the time series can have any positive value.
```

Author: Thank you it is much clearer than before, I meant to tag you on this one (I had only wrapped it within `.. note::`

.. note::

>     For non-dispatchable sources, eg. the generation of a PV plant, you need to provide a specific time series (unit: kWh/kWp, etc.). For the latter, make sure that its values are between zero and one ([0, 1]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For non-dispatchable sources, eg. the generation of a PV plant, you need to provide a specific time series (unit: kWh/kWp, etc.). For the latter, make sure that its values are between zero and one (:code:`[0, 1]`).
```
Is it currently possible that the value is `>1`? If we have a very good PV location, this can be the case. Issues need to be checked, maybe it is in one of the function tests in `C` that processes the PV timeseries...

Reviewer: If it is possible:  `It can be possible to have a peak generation larger 1, if the location has for example better conditions then the standard PV testing conditions.`

Author: I think it was a problem for @FredericHirschmueller 's calculations for his master thesis, I am not sure whether the latest version of the MVS fixed it

.. image:: images/energy_system_model.png
 :width: 200

Ideally you sketch down the energy system you want to simulate with the above-mentioned granularity
and only using sources, sinks, transformers and buses (meaning the oemof components).
When interconnecting different assets make sure that you use the correct bus name in each of the CSV input files.
The bus names are defined with *input_direction* and *output_direction*.
If you interconnect your assets or buses incorrectly the system will still be built but the simulation terminated.

> When executing a simulation, the MVS will generate a rough graphic visualisation of your energy system if you use the option :code:`-png`.

Reviewer: If my PR #874 is merged first, you could reference the output file with `:ref:"network_graph"`

Author: ```suggestion
When executing a simulation, the MVS will generate a rough graphic visualisation of your energy system if you use the option :code:`-png`.
.. TODO: add reference to :ref:`network_graph` here
```
